# Reflection on Five Faces of Oppression

In “Five Faces of Oppression,” Iris Marion Young acknowledges that it is difficult to identify a single set of criteria that defines oppression, because groups experience oppression in different ways. Young, therefore, identifies five conditions that describe oppression: exploitation, marginalization, powerlessness, cultural imperialism, and violence.

Exploitation denotes cases where a group’s “menial labor” and energies are transferred to another to produce unequal distributions of benefits. Menial labor points to the power dynamic between the “servers” and those who are served. Such examples include women being expected as caretakers to spend and transfer their emotional and sexual energies to men. Marginalization happens when a group of people are bereft of their “rights to privacy, respect, and individual choice” due to their dependent status. Members of this group include single mothers, disabled people, American Indians, elderly people, and unemployed people. Their participation in society is hindered as dependents on social support, which exposes them to the risk of “material deprivation and extermination.” Powerlessness contrasts the privileges of the professional—which include authority, expertise, and influence—with the lack of status and sense of self experienced by nonprofessionals. This division of labor between professionals and nonprofessionals manifests in all aspects of their social life, including their residential locations, their taste in food, and their likelihood of getting their loans approved. Cultural imperialism reflects the paradox of being marked out by stereotypes while simultaneously being rendered invisible. It involves the dominant group’s culture being established as the norm, and their inferiorized images of others define the experiences of culturally dominated groups. The oppressed groups are socialized to react to the stereotypes imposed by the dominant culture, but they are unable to rewrite the narrative due to social segregation. Lastly, violence refers to systemic attacks on people because of their identification with a group. Society renders “random, unprovoked” acts of violence acceptable, perpetuating the social practice of violence targeted at members of groups including Blacks, Asians, women, Arabs, gay men, and lesbians.

I really appreciate Young’s effort to delineate the different ways people are oppressed. Because the different conditions of oppression are so intertwined, without specifying and labeling them, it can be difficult to understand what conditions exactly are at play when trying to understand how a certain group is oppressed. For example, cultural imperialism intersects with violence. When culturally dominated groups try to uplift their own culture, they may be targeted with random violence from those who perceive their cultural empowerment as a challenge to the supremacy of the dominant culture. It would not be incomplete to say the group is subject to violence and has a collective understanding and fear of their vulnerability to it. It would also be important to address how the group’s inferiorized image is imposed by the dominant culture, and how such framing exposes them to more risk of self-justified acts of violence and hatred.

John McWhorter, an American linguist, on the other hand, would not appreciate Young’s paper as much. In [Steve Inskeep’s podcast]([url](https://www.npr.org/transcripts/1052650979)), McWhorter devalues the importance of labeling different forms of oppression and argues that people should care less about “what things are called.” He claims that “telling people not to be racist or thinking of those inequities as some abstract version of bigotry” does not help in battling inequities. He goes as far as to say that kids should not be taught to “question the very foundation of the society.” His statements, especially the last one, made me feel uncomfortable. Young people have every right to question the systemic injustice they encounter in their day-to-day lives and the societal constructs, such as race, that predispose people to disadvantaged positions in society. They learn how to battle their unconscious prejudices against different groups of identities and how to make keen observations in society by first learning about what discrimination, racism, oppression, and other social phenomena are. Naming occurrences of injustice and oppression is important not just for teaching purposes, but also to promote group solidarity and empowerment. When the term ‘intersectionality’ was introduced by Kimberlé Crenshaw, it gave people at the intersection of different histories of marginalization, exploitation, cultural domination, powerlessness, and violence a collective identity and a voice through vibrant social movements. John McWhorter does bring up a valid point that “policing language is easier” than actually taking action to battle social injustice. It is indeed important to ensure that the discussion of social issues does not just end up becoming a jumble of words or a proxy for actions never taken. The roots of these words, such as ‘intersectionality,’ lie in grassroots movements. While it is important that action remains the priority of discussions, I strongly believe that discussions are crucial to further empower different groups of identity and validate their experiences of oppression. I believe students should be taught to “question the very foundation of the society,” think about “microaggressions and how white people feel in their heart of hearts,” and “[tell] people not to be racist.”
